= Installation example with a fresh Ubuntu 8.04 machine and SQLite3 + Apache + Passenger

Although this guide is specific for Ubuntu 8.04, it can also serve as a rough guide for the steps
necessary using any operating system. There are also many other deployment choices, but Apache with
Phusion Passenger (mod_rails) is a popular one. SQLite3 is used here for the sake of simplicity, 
but MySQL will probably be a better choice for a production environment, and can easily be used 
by configuring it in the config/database.yml. SLIMcore Authorizer is the default since this is what's 
being used at Institute for Systems Biology where SLIMseq was developed.

== Prerequisites

SLIMseq can be installed either as a standalone application, or using shared infrastructure that 
allows single sign-on and shared users and lab groups with other applications such as SLIMarray. 
The shared infrastructure install requires that you separately install SLIMcore 
(http://github.com/bmarzolf/slimcore/tree/master) and RubyCAS-server 
(http://github.com/gunark/rubycas-server/tree/master).

See the "Install Extras for SLIMcore Authorizer" at the end of this document for details on 
installing SLIMcore and RubyCAS-server/RubyCAS-client.

== Install Ruby, RubyGems, Rails and Rake

    sudo aptitude update && sudo aptitude upgrade
    sudo aptitude -y install ruby1.8-dev ruby1.8 ri1.8 rdoc1.8 irb1.8 libreadline-ruby1.8 libruby1.8 libopenssl-ruby libmysql-ruby1.8
    sudo ln -s /usr/bin/ruby1.8 /usr/bin/ruby
    sudo ln -s /usr/bin/ri1.8 /usr/bin/ri
    sudo ln -s /usr/bin/rdoc1.8 /usr/bin/rdoc
    sudo ln -s /usr/bin/irb1.8 /usr/bin/irb
    wget http://rubyforge.org/frs/download.php/45905/rubygems-1.3.1.tgz
    tar zxf rubygems-1.3.1.tgz
    cd rubygems-1.3.1
    sudo ruby setup.rb
    sudo ln -s /usr/bin/gem1.8 /usr/bin/gem
    sudo gem install rails -v=2.2.2
    sudo gem install rake

== Install Git

    sudo aptitude -y install git-core

== Install Prerequisites For Gems

    sudo aptitude -y install build-essential
    sudo aptitude -y install libxml2-dev libxslt1-dev

== Install SLIMseq itself

    sudo mkdir /apps
    sudo chown notroot:notroot /apps
    cd /apps/
    git clone git://github.com/bmarzolf/slimseq.git
    cd slimseq

== Run the setup task

Running the setup task will install the necessary plugins and gems, initialize the database and 
create and administrator user. This needs to be run using sudo since it will be installing some gems.

    # using authorizer=slimsolo here will cause the setup task to instead us slimsolo_authorizer
    sudo rake setup authorizer=slimcore

== Run the server

    script/server

If all is well, you should be able to browse to <Server IP>:3000 and log in as .

== Install Apache2 and Passenger

    sudo aptitude -y install apache2 apache2.2-common apache2-mpm-prefork apache2-utils libexpat1 ssl-cert apache2-prefork-dev
    sudo gem install passenger
    sudo passenger-install-apache2-module

Add the provided lines to /etc/apache2/apache2.conf.

== Configure Apache2 for SLIMseq

    sudo vim /etc/apache2/sites-available/slimseq

Add these lines:

    <VirtualHost *:80>
      ServerName www.yourhost.com
      DocumentRoot /apps/slimseq/public
    </VirtualHost>

Enable the new site you've created, disable the default one, and reload the apache configs:

    sudo a2dissite default
    sudo a2ensite slimseq
    sudo /etc/init.d/apache2 reload

Now you should be get to SLIMseq at http://www.yourhost.com

== Install Extras for SLIMcore Authorizer

=== SLIMcore Install Instructions (only needed with SLIMcore Authorizer)

Follow the documentation at http://github.com/bmarzolf/slimcore/tree/master.

=== RubyCAS Install Instructions (only needed with SLIMcore Authorizer)

RubyCAS-server depends upon the Picnic gem, however there's an issue with Picnic and newer 
versions of Passenger. This is problematic since SLIMcore uses Rails 2.3.2, which requires 
Passenger 2.1+. When installing RubyCAS-server, be sure to install the following forks
of Picnic and RubyCAS-server:

    sudo gem sources -a http://gems.github.com
    sudo gem install bmarzolf-picnic -v=0.8.0.20090421

Also install the gettext gem:

    sudo gem install gettext

Then, install RubyCAS-server from this source:

    git clone git://github.com/bmarzolf/rubycas-server.git /apps/rubycas-server
    cd /apps/rubycas-server
    cp config.example.yml config.yml
    # edit setting in config.yml
    mkdir public tmp

Assuming an Apache and Passenger installation as decribed above, do:

    sudo vim /etc/apache2/sites-available/rubycas

Add these lines:

    <VirtualHost *:3030>
      ServerName www.yourhost.com
      DocumentRoot /apps/rubycas-server/public
    </VirtualHost>

Enable the new site you've created and reload the apache configs:

    sudo a2ensite rubycas
    sudo /etc/init.d/apache2 reload

Finally, install the RubyCAS-client gem:

    sudo gem install gunark-rubycas-client
